using-the-hpc/how-to-use/request-access.md, before:

# Requesting an Allocation

## Who can request an account?
* Faculty and staff can request accounts by filling out a form electronically or emailing their request to [hpc@cofc.edu](mailto:hpc@cofc.edu?subject=Requesting%20new%20faculty/staff%20account).
* Students are eligible for accounts upon endorsement or sponsorship by their faculty/staff mentor/advisor. Their faculty/staff mentor/advisor can send an email request to [hpc@cofc.edu](mailto:hpc@cofc.edu?subject=Requesting%20new%20student%20account) on their behalf to initiate the account creation process.

## Information that needs to be provided
To request an account, faculty/staff/students would need to agree to [CofC HPC's policies](../../policies.md) and provide the following information.

1. Your full name
2. Your CofC email address
3. A mobile phone number that will be used for two-factor authentication in the future.

## Procedure
### User names and primary group names
* User names are set to your CofC login name unless explicitly requested otherwise.
* Primary group names
  * Faculty/staff - the primary group names for you and your students would be your CofC login name unless you explicitly request otherwise
* Secondary group names
  * If faculty/staff need users to belong in secondary groups, say for a group of students working on the same project, they can request that a secondary group be created under a name of their choice.

### Account creation and creation timeline
The creation and activation notice will be dispatched to the email address entered above. This process can take up to 24 hours to complete.

<!--
## HPC Condo Groups

To access HPC Condos, users will need to be added into an appropriate group. Find your group in the table below, and click on the respective / registration URL, as outlined in the instructions above. _NSED access exists in the Moderate Protection Zone._

| Division Name | Division Approver | PBS Directives |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| [Computing and Computational  Sciences Directorate \(CCSD\)](https://.univ.edu//groups/cad-ccsd/) | Jayson Hines [xxxb@oxnl.gov\)](mailto:hiXXXXnl.gov) | `#PBS -W group_list=cad-ccsd`   `#PBS -A ccsd` |

📝 **Note:** If you do not see your group listed, please [contact the team](../../support.md) and include:

* Help with HPC Condo Registration  
*  ID or  ID, contact information, reason for requesting an HPC Condo allocation, and the name of your directorate and division.

-->

Commit message:

updated software section; list; webmo primer

using-the-hpc/how-to-use/request-access.md, after:

# Requesting an Allocation

## Who can request an account?
* Faculty and staff can request accounts emailing [hpc@cofc.edu](mailto:hpc@cofc.edu?subject=Requesting%20new%20faculty/staff%20account).
* Students are eligible for accounts upon endorsement or sponsorship by their faculty/staff mentor/advisor. Their faculty/staff mentor/advisor can send an email request to [hpc@cofc.edu](mailto:hpc@cofc.edu?subject=Requesting%20new%20student%20account) on their behalf to initiate the account creation process.

## Information that needs to be provided
To request an account, faculty/staff/students would need to agree to [CofC HPC's policies](../../policies.md) and provide the following information.

1. Your full name
2. Your CofC email address
3. A brief description of how you intend to use the HPC
4. Any requests for software or storage requirements

## Procedure
### User names and primary group names
* User names are set to your CofC login name unless explicitly requested otherwise.
* Primary group names
  * Faculty/staff - the primary group names for you and your students would be your CofC login name unless you explicitly request otherwise
* Secondary group names
  * If faculty/staff need users to belong in secondary groups, say for a group of students working on the same project, they can request that a secondary group be created under a name of their choice.

### Account creation and creation timeline
The creation and activation notice will be dispatched to the email address entered above. This process can take up to 24 hours to complete.

<!--
## HPC Condo Groups

To access HPC Condos, users will need to be added into an appropriate group. Find your group in the table below, and click on the respective / registration URL, as outlined in the instructions above. _NSED access exists in the Moderate Protection Zone._

| Division Name | Division Approver | PBS Directives |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| [Computing and Computational  Sciences Directorate \(CCSD\)](https://.univ.edu//groups/cad-ccsd/) | Jayson Hines [xxxb@oxnl.gov\)](mailto:hiXXXXnl.gov) | `#PBS -W group_list=cad-ccsd`   `#PBS -A ccsd` |

📝 **Note:** If you do not see your group listed, please [contact the team](../../support.md) and include:

* Help with HPC Condo Registration  
*  ID or  ID, contact information, reason for requesting an HPC Condo allocation, and the name of your directorate and division.

-->
